In this video we'll talk about troubleshooting common installation issues with ESX and V Center OK.
So when we're installing ESX high we have a few different options of ways that we can actually perform
the installation.
We can do an interactive installation.
This is probably the most common way that people install ESX I for the first time right where basically
you have the ESX site installation media you boot up a host from let's say a DVD and you go through
all the prompts and you manually install ESX.
That's definitely the most common option if you're having problems there.
Make sure that you've got the boot order in your bios selected correctly.
Right so that the ESX host will actually boot from the media you're using to install ESX side.
That's a pretty straightforward one.
You can also install ESX from us be devices you can install ESX by using a scripted installation where
you write your own script to control the installation of ESX from some sort of image repository or you
can use auto deploy.
Now I wouldn't expect to see a lot on the VSE for six foundations exam about these topics but if you're
taking the VCP exam you can expect some questions about scripted installations and auto deploy.
From the perspective of auto deploy what you're actually doing is you're booting up ESX hosts with no
local image whatsoever.
They might not even have any local storage whatsoever.
And as you're ESX I host boot up they're doing something called a Pixi boot and the Pixi bu enables
them to boot from an average on a TFT server which allows them to then download and ESX site image directly
into memory.
So you can actually write it ESX I hosts with no local storage whatsoever.
And so without getting into a whole bunch of detail on auto ploy just understand that we've got all
these different ways to install ESX II.
Here we're primarily focused on the interactive installation method.
Right.
So we'll talk a little bit about some of the troubleshooting you can do with the interactive installation.
But first let's talk about the impact of improper licensing.
Right.
So if you have an expired visa center license what you'll see in your visa for a web client is all of
your hosts will appear to be disconnected.
That's usually the result of an expired visa have a license and you cannot connect your hosts to the
sender until that license is either replaced or something along those lines you have to have a current
valid license to connect those hosts.
You also can't apply a license to a host if the license has insufficient C.P. use.
Right so if you have a license for ACP use and you have a host with 16 C.P use while you're not going
to be able to apply that license to that host.
Now and this screen we're actually looking at V.M. Where is documentation.
And here you can see a document called collecting logs for troubleshooting a V Center server installation
or upgrade.
This is important information for the certification and for real life as well.
So if you're installing or upgrading vse center there is a number of logs that are specific only to
the installation process.
Right so if an installation or upgrade fails you can check these logs to help you identify the source
of the failure.
And the most common method is to simply use the installation wizard to collect those installation logs.
Right.
So if the installation fails and we get this page thing the set up has been interrupted and there some
checkboxes automatically selected that will simply allow you to download those log files.
So that's the easiest and simplest way but there's also other options you can collect deployment log
files from the center server appliance.
You can even export a V Center server support bundle for troubleshooting.
And so this the documentation will walk you through you know all of the individual steps required to
complete these tasks.
And while we're in the documentation there is one other document I want to show you.
This is another error that I would not be shocked to see on the certification test.
If you get this error Microsoft sequel database set to unsupported compatibility mode causes the center
installation to fail.
Basically at this point you just have to make sure you're running a database version that's actually
supported by the center.
So if sequel 2008 is set up to run in sequel 2000 compatibility mode this error occurs.
This is the type of scenario you want to memorize for the certification test.